The stage is yours.
Thank you very much, Martin.
So as Martin told already to you, I'm Andrea
and I'm a software engineer at Genetio.
We are trying to build the cloud platform
for web applications.
So our user should build web and mobile applications
and deploy them to us.
Just before starting, I want to set some expectations.
So first of all, this talk is going to be a talk
of the challenges and solutions we've come up with
by running real node applications on Unicernals.
And secondly, I really hope that this presentation
will spark some discussions.
I know that the Unicernal community is active
and creative and me and my colleagues are going to be around
after the presentation for us to speak
if you have use cases, questions, challenges
that you've tackled and you want to chat with us about them.
So let's get down to business.
Okay, so before starting to build a platform,
we really needed to put down some guidelines
and the vision that we want to implement with that platform.
So is this sound okay?
Because it sounds weird to me.
Okay.
It sounds good, but that's not the Unicernal.
Okay, okay, thanks.
So back to vision.
So first of all, we really want to optimize resources
like power consumption, memory, CPU
and costs for our users.
Secondly, we don't want to throw away response time
for that optimization that we did.
So we want to have a snappy response for our clients.
So response time is very important to us.
And lastly, we want an easy to use, secure
and auto scaling platform.
That means that we want to take the burden
from the developer to where I deploy this application.
How should I scale it and stuff like this?
This is the job of the cloud platform
and we want to provide that to the end user.
So to take all the boxes,
we decided to try Unicernals
in a function as a service environment.
Function as a service essentially means
that when we have an incoming request,
we spawn a VM that will be bounded in time.
So it will leave for a few moments, for a few minutes, sorry.
It will handle that request and send back the response.
And we are doing this with the Unicernals.
So essentially we have our orchestrator down here
and then for the request,
we are spawning the Firecracker with OSV,
that is the Unicernal that we are using,
with Node.js and at the top level,
we have the user application.
But still this has some challenges,
unique set of challenges than the classic Linux container
and classic long-living server.
So our challenges are reducing the call starts
because we are spawning up many VMs,
essentially every few minutes,
we are spawning the VMs if we have incoming requests.
We have to somehow reduce the boot time for these VMs.
So we have to boot it very quickly
or give it a try to another mechanism
to improve this call start.
Secondly, because we are a multi-tenant platform,
we want to somehow be able to upgrade the Unicernal
or do patch, patches it at the Unicernal level
without really iterating through each image
for each of our users and redeploy everything.
And lastly, of course, we want security
and we want process isolation.
That means we don't want application one
to be able to access resource from application two.
So we've tackled first of all the call start,
which is a big problem in the function of the service world.
So to tackle that, we leverage snapshots,
as everybody does probably,
and we did snapshots as following.
We are booting up the Unicernal.
We are starting the Node.js process
and immediately after we start the Node.js process,
we pause and at that moment we are creating a snapshot
and store it for later.
When we want to spawn a new VM,
what we do essentially is we start the firecracker,
which helps us load the snapshot
and then we are attaching a new disk with the user code.
We are mounting it and we are importing it
into the Node.js code that was already started
in the snapshot.
This will help us with the second challenge that we have,
the upgrading the Unicernal
and you'll see in a moment how.
To optimize even further, what we are doing
is that we are not really waiting for requests to come
and to then start the firecracker load the snapshot
and so on.
We have already a pool of warmed VMs that are started
but they are not scheduled on the CPU.
They are just logged in the memory
and then we have an incoming request.
We just take such one VM from the pool,
we attach the user code, we handle it
and then we give back the response to the client.
Going back to upgrading the Unicernal image.
So as I told you, we are a multi-tenant platform
so we expect to have thousands of user applications
that are running on our platform.
So somehow we don't want to embed the user code
into the Unicernal image because if we do that,
we will have to rebuild each image of each of our user
once we do a Unicernal upgrade or a patch or a bug fix.
So what we are doing is that we are creating
a single snapshot with just with the Unicernal
and with Node runtime and as I already told you,
we are attaching the user code later.
So essentially when we are doing an upgrade,
we just have to upgrade that base image
and each VM that is spawned afterwards,
it will reference to that base image.
So this is why we are mounting user code afterwards
and this is how we can enable OSV and Unicernal upgrade
without really redeploying everything on our platform.
And lastly, we are doing security and isolation
using Firecracker Jailer.
This helps us running each process sandbox,
Firecracker Jailer allows us to have
different network namespaces in such a way
that we are not using the same network interface
with each process.
We have different file systems
and different process namespaces.
And also Jailer allows us to limit resources
to make sure that we have some kind of fairness
between VMs because we don't really want one single VM
to eat up the whole CPU or the whole IO bandwidth.
So we can control the IO throughput
and CPU time for each VM.
Because we are running things with real world stuff,
we also find out some bugs,
especially in the first one is in the Node.js V8 compiler,
it used the pop-up instructions incorrectly
and in the privilege mode,
which is the single mode in Unicernal,
with this it enables interrupts and that was not,
we cannot run any Node code essentially,
it was all Node code was affected by this bug.
And also we fixed some bugs in OSV
and we made some contribution upstream.
Those are related to using two file systems
because we need the first file system for the Unicernal
and the second one is the user code
that we are attaching later.
And also we found out some notepossicks compliant
functions in P-treads library.
Okay, now let's talk about metrics.
So as I told you, the most important thing for us
is the request response time,
because we want to make sure that the end user
of our clients are getting their requests
as fast as possible.
So they have a snappy feeling
when they're using the applications.
So we actually benchmark that to see if using
the Unicernal versus Linux container is as fast,
is there is a difference or if there is an improvement.
So first of all, we did a bit of setup.
We are using a client, so essentially the browser,
let's say, the client is in Asia.
And then we are comparing with the standard
functions and service solution from AWS.
And also we have our servers that are running
on the GeneXia infrastructure.
So these are the three actors.
We are comparing AWS Lambda with OSV,
which is a Unicernal solution,
and with a classic Linux container to have
a full comparison, to have a full picture of the problem.
This is the code that we are running.
Essentially it's a Hello World code.
It's more of a ping.
We are just sending a request
and we are getting back a Hello World string.
And these are the actual numbers.
So for a cold call, a cold call means
that there is no VM pre-warmed for us.
So at the moment when we are handling the request,
we also have to wait for the boot time.
And in orange we have Lambda
that was getting us the request back in 300 milliseconds.
And in purple we have the OSV
and in blue we have the Linux container
that are performing like 60 milliseconds.
And then we also have the worm call,
which is for the Lambda is around 60 milliseconds.
And for OSV and Linux is around 30 milliseconds.
So as we can see first of all,
is that the OSV and Linux are mostly performing the same.
And the first question that comes into mind
is why use a Unicernal and why bother with it
if the Linux container is just as good.
But what we cannot see on this graph
is the Linux kernel footprint.
So the Linux kernel takes up much more space in storage
when we are creating the snapshot,
much more space in memory
when we're using the pre-warmed pool VMs and so on.
So the reason we can use Unicernals
is that we are optimizing resources,
even memory and storage and so on.
Next steps for us, first of all,
is to integrate many more canals.
So for now we are just using OSV
because it was the mature project
at the point that we started,
but we want to use many more Unicernals
that are just developing in the community.
And then we also want to add more support
for more programming languages.
We just went full on for Node.js
because it was very popular.
But we also want to add more support
in a way that every web programmer can deploy
its backend code on Unicernals.
As a last call, I want to stay in touch
with the people that are interested
in this kind of project.
I think that this community of Unicernals
is very active and is flourishing
from the contributions that we are all making.
That's all.
Okay, again, time for questions here.
I'll be there.
Hello.
Thank you for the talk.
Very, very interesting.
Just a very simple question.
Can you give me an eyeball on how big
your Unicernal base image for Node.js is?
I don't really have the numbers.
So how big is the Unicernal image?
Yes, so...
For Node.
So the last one?
I mean what you used in the demo.
So you have some megabytes, the dependencies,
or so adding up to the gigabytes.
To be honest, I didn't look into megabytes.
Under 100.
So I just received the answer in the headphones.
It's megabytes.
Okay, perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I may have missed it in the presentation,
but in the benchmark that you showed us,
obviously Lambda was running on the Amazon hardware,
but what was Genesio running on top of?
Genesio is running on top of a bare metal
in another cloud deployment called Host.
So basically we are running, I think, on ARM,
on an ARM server that is bare metal.
So we are building everything up on the ground.
Okay, so there may have been a difference
also in the hardware that was provided by Amazon
and the hardware.
That might be true because the Avisunda
is running Graviton and we don't have
that kind of hardware, of course.
Okay, thanks.
Yeah.
So, more questions, yes.
A bit of access for me.
Thank you very much.
So thank you for the presentation.
I have a kind of a question,
like from someone considering to do serverless
and knowing that there is AWS Lambda,
what is basically your selling point?
Why would one use Genesio versus Lambda?
Given that AWS is a big company
and that Lambda has been running for a long time.
Oh, I see, so there are a lot of reasons
why you would use Genesio over Lambda.
So first of all, we provide a much more easy tooling to use.
So it's more targeting to have a very low learning curve.
So you can just pick up Genesio in the meters of minutes
than AWS Lambda, which is a bit hard to understand
for a first time user.
And secondly, AWS Lambda is not really interested
in resource optimization, at least
at what we tested right now.
So with Unicorus, we want to provide even more
resource optimization and lower costs.
Yeah, hi.
Hello.
Thank you for the presentation.
One of the things that's interesting about Lambda's now
is they have a snapshot mechanism for Java.
Is that something which you're looking to do as well
is to have snapshots for different platforms
and different kind of run times on top of your framework?
Yeah, so we are planning to use the same mechanism
that we use for Node.js.
So basically every program language that we want to support,
it will also have snapshots and it will benefit
from the same mechanism that we use.
Okay, surprisingly, we have still time for questions.
Okay.
Bring them on.
Yeah, I'm gonna kill it.
Very nice optimization.
I mean, with the preheating and the pooling and the others,
are you targeting or are you planning to target also
kernel internals because I mean,
I'm getting this experience from Unicraft
but also I guess in OSB, you could do a lot of fine tuning
there.
Are you looking into that or are you linking only on
how to optimize it via, let's say, external means
because what you showed there is I have this VM,
I pre-warm it, is it something in internals?
For example, bootloaders, boot times are dreaded,
even in your major Unicornals.
Firecracker can be also configured to ditch a lot of devices,
all those sorts of stuff can be fine tuned and optimized
for different use cases.
If you're using Node, some items may not be required,
so you can do, I'm not sure, some postponing.
Are you looking into that as well?
I mean, more of kernel internals?
Yeah, so we are also looking into that.
As I know, we didn't really look into the bootloaders,
but for example, we looked on how to improve the network stack
because it takes up a lot of time to boot up the network stack.
Valdic, is it LWIP?
What is the networking stack of OSB?
The networking stack of it, is it also LWIP
or what is it for OSB?
The next stack.
I'm not sure.
The networking stack, what is it?
I don't think it's the best one.
Okay, that's a good one.
I mean, LWIP is dreadful, but BSD is a better one.
Gotcha?
Yeah, so I know that we are looking into that,
but right now, the things that we already have implemented
are just treating OSB as a black box.
Okay.
Yeah, the next step for us would be to also optimize
the Unicom and the bootloader part.
We need a kind of site for that.
No, no, for sure, for sure, because by many,
Unicom also would take doing a different approach,
but I think that's a very nice spot
and also very challenging to look into.
And Unicom will provide this because you are able to actually
optimize the application itself,
optimize the kernel because of the way it's running.
Did you, I'm not sure, did you use SMP support for this?
What is it currently running single core?
It's running single core.
No.
No?
We got different machine sizes.
No, no, no, I mean the deployment of VM.
Can a VM run multi-threaded with different trends
on different cores?
Yes.
Okay.
So when you deploy something, you can choose the machine
size, you can get inside the size,
you can get on the graph, that's all.
And they have different CPUs now.
Okay, for an actual Unicom only instance.
Okay, awesome.
Okay, let me have a question as well.
I was quite taken by surprise that you don't optimize the image,
which sort of goes in my opinion against the benefits
of Unicom that you really optimize down the image
just specifically to the workload and the APIs and whatever
that the client is using.
So why do you do this trade-off?
Do your customers really think that rebuilding the image
is so cumbersome?
So that means that we have to let our clients tinker
with the Unicom image, right?
So we are actually targeting users that are not that much
into the Unicom stuff, so they are much into writing back
and codes and so on, and they have knowledge into that
direction.
So we'll kind of try to abstract that, so maybe this is why
we did choose to create the base image for them
without really asking them how can we improve it even more.
Okay, so basically you are saying that you are automating it
so you don't want to push that burden to the clients, right?
Exactly.
Okay, that makes sense.
So maybe one final question?
Okay, nothing?
Anyway, thanks for the talk.
Thank you.